Add a blog post: Last mile towards sbt 2 (#1909)
scala/scala-lang: blog/_posts/2026-04-14-last-mile-towards-sbt2.md

At conferences or on social media, the question we get most often is:

> When is sbt 2 coming out?

We'll discuss the plan in this post. But let me catch you up on the status first.

## What's new in sbt 2?

sbt 2 is a new version of sbt. If you're familiar with sbt 1.x, hopefully the jump is not too far, but we have pushed sbt to the modern standard. The headline features are:

- sbt 2.x uses Scala 3.x for build definitions and plugins (Both sbt 1.x and 2.x are capable of building Scala 2.x and 3.x)
- Embraces a simpler build.sbt via common settings
- `test` changed to an incremental test
- Local and remote cache system that is Bazel-compatible
- Uses sbtn (native-image client) for shell
- Project matrix that can cross build subprojects in parallel

<br>
For more details, please check out the Scala Days 2025 talk [sbt 2.0: go big](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GM2ywMb4z7A) that I gave in August 2025.

> To share the progress thus far, we released the [sbt 2.0 ideas](https://eed3si9n.com/sbt-2.0-ideas) post in 2023, with sbt 2.0.0-alpha7. After a few more years of development, we released a beta version [sbt 2.0.0-RC2](https://eed3si9n.com/sbt-2.0.0-RC2) that's ready for testing, around Scala Days 2025. Since then, we have been releasing more beta versions with both bug fixes and community-contributed feature enhancements. Perhaps surprising to some, sbt 2.x already started the binary compatibility from the RC series. This gave us a head start on repopulating the plugin ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To share progress thus far, we published the [sbt 2.0 ideas](https://eed3si9n.com/sbt-2.0-ideas) post in 2023, with sbt 2.0.0-alpha7. After a few more years of development, we released a beta version [sbt 2.0.0-RC2](https://eed3si9n.com/sbt-2.0.0-RC2) that was ready for testing, around Scala Days 2025. Since then, we have been releasing more beta versions with both bug fixes and community-contributed feature enhancements. Perhaps surprising to some, sbt 2.x already started the binary compatibility from the RC series. This gave us a head start on repopulating the plugin ecosystem.
```

## Repopulating the plugin ecosystem

> Thanks to the community effort, we already have [60+ plugins](https://www.scala-sbt.org/2.x/docs/en/community-plugins.html) ported to sbt 2.x. This is amazing for a build tool that hasn't been released yet. Special thanks to Kenji Yoshida for pull requests, preparing and porting many plugins to sbt 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the community effort, we already have [60+ plugins](https://www.scala-sbt.org/2.x/docs/en/community-plugins.html) ported to sbt 2.x. This is amazing for a build tool that hasn't been released yet. Special thanks to Kenji Yoshida for porting many plugins to sbt 2.
```
